Rework migrate data docs (Take 2) (#5244)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/migrate.md

| Elastic feature and component data | Configuration data for products such as {{fleet}}, {{integrations}}, and {{watcher}} is typically migrated using the snapshot and restore feature. Refer to [Snapshot and restore](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md) and to the documentation for each specific product for additional detail. In case you need to migrate {{fleet}} configuration data through snapshot and restore, this requires also restoring the {{kib}} feature state. |

## User data migration guides [data-migration-guides]

To migrate your {{es}} ingested user data, choose one of the available migration options depending on your source and target deployment types. The guides each use a specific source and target deployment type as an example, but they can all be adapted to your specific migration use case.

> ### Migrate data to {{ech}}**: [data-migration-guides-ech]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrate data to {{ech}} [data-migration-guides-ech]
```

> | From | To | Supported Methods |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| From | To | Supported methods |
```

| ECE | ECH | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| ECK | ECH | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| {{serverless-short}} | ECH | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| Self-managed | ECH | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md)*, [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

\* See also [](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-from-a-self-managed-cluster-with-a-self-signed-certificate-using-remote-reindex.md).

> ### Migrate data to {{ece}}**: [data-migration-guides-ece]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrate data to {{ece}} [data-migration-guides-ece]
```

> | From | To | Supported Methods |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| From | To | Supported methods |
```

| ECE | ECE | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| ECK | ECE | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| {{serverless-short}} | ECE | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| Self-managed | ECE | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

### Migrate data to {{eck}}**: [data-migration-guides-eck]

> | From | To | Supported Methods |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrate data to {{eck}} [data-migration-guides-eck]

| From | To | Supported methods |
```

| ECE | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| ECK | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| {{serverless-short}} | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| Self-managed | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

### Migrate data to {{serverless-full}}**: [data-migration-guides-serverless]

> | From | To | Supported Methods |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrate data to {{serverless-full}} [data-migration-guides-serverless]

| From | To | Supported methods |
```

| --- | --- | --- |
| ECH | {{serverless-short}} | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md) {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.3+` <br><br> [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| ECE | {{serverless-short}} | [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| ECK | {{serverless-short}} | [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| {{serverless-short}} | {{serverless-short}} | [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| Self-managed | {{serverless-short}} | [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

### Migrate data to Elastic self-managed**: [data-migration-guides-self-managed]

> | From | To | Supported Methods |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migrate data to Elastic self-managed [data-migration-guides-self-managed]

| From | To | Supported methods |
```

Depending on the type of data that you need to move, various migration options are available:

:::{note}
Not all migration methods are compatible with all deployment types. For your ingested user data, refer to the [User data migration guides](#data-migration-guides) for more information before selecting a method.
:::

| Migration method | Description |
| ------ | ------ |

> | Reindex from source | For your own data, reindexing into your new, destination deployment from the data's original source is typically the most straightforward approach, because you don't need to consider differing {{es}} versions or deployment types.<br><br>If you still have access to the original data source, outside of your former {{es}} cluster, you can load the data from there. You have the option to use any ingestion method that you want—{{ls}}, {{agent}}, {{beats}}, the {{es}} clients, or whatever works best for you.<br><br>If the original source isn’t available or has other issues that make it non-viable, you can choose from one of the other migration options described here |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Reindex from source | For your own data, reindexing into your new, destination deployment from the data's original source is typically the most straightforward approach, because you don't need to consider differing {{es}} versions or deployment types.<br><br>If you still have access to the original data source, outside of your former {{es}} cluster, you can load the data from there. You have the option to use any ingestion method that you want—{{ls}}, {{agent}}, {{beats}}, the {{es}} clients, or whatever works best for you.<br><br>If the original source isn’t available or has other issues that make it non-viable, you can choose from one of the other migration options described here. |
```

| [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) | With {{ls}} you can collect, process, and forward data from a variety of sources to a variety of destinations. It serves as a highly configurable option available for migrating data between any deployment types. |
| [Saved objects API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/group/endpoint-saved-objects) | Use this API to migrate objects that you've saved in {{kib}}. |
| [{{kib}} saved object management](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/saved-objects.md#saved-objects-import-and-export) | You can also use the {{kib}} UI to migrate your saved objects. |

The following table describes the migration options available for each data type, and where to find guidance.

| Data type | Migration options |
| ------ | ------ |
| Ingested user data | The reindex API, snapshot and restore, and {{ls}} migration options are available for your user data, with some restrictions based on the source and target deployment type. Refer to [User data migration guides](#data-migration-guides) on this page to learn more. |

> | {{es}} system data | System indices must be migrated using the snapshot and restore [feature states](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md#feature-state) component. Refer to [Migrate system indices](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-internal-indices.md) for detailed migration steps. Migrating system data is not required on {{serverless-short}}. |

Reviewer: not required or not available? this also is not exactly required for regular users either

```suggestion
| {{es}} system data | System indices must be migrated using the snapshot and restore [feature states](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md#feature-state) component. Refer to [Migrate system indices](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-internal-indices.md) for detailed migration steps. Migrating system data is not available when migrating to or from {{serverless-short}} projects. |
```

| {{kib}} saved objects | {{kib}} saved objects can be migrated using the snapshot and restore [feature states](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md#feature-state) component or the {{kib}} import and export tools. The tools include the import and export endpoints of the [Saved objects API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/group/endpoint-saved-objects) and the [import and export](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/saved-objects.md#saved-objects-import-and-export) options in the {{kib}} UI.<br><br>Snapshot and restore is generally the preferred migration method due to both speed and ease of use. |

> | Elastic feature and component data | Configuration data for products such as {{fleet}}, {{integrations}}, and {{watcher}} is typically migrated using the snapshot and restore feature. Refer to [Snapshot and restore](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md) and to the documentation for each specific product for additional detail. In case you need to migrate {{fleet}} configuration data through snapshot and restore, this requires also restoring the {{kib}} feature state. |

Reviewer: so people don't have to hunt through the other rows

```suggestion
| Elastic feature and component data | Configuration data for products such as {{fleet}}, {{integrations}}, and {{watcher}} is typically migrated using the snapshot and restore feature. Refer to [Snapshot and restore](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md) and to the documentation for each specific product for additional detail. In case you need to migrate {{fleet}} configuration data through snapshot and restore, this requires also restoring the {{kib}} [feature state](/deploy-manage/tools/snapshot-and-restore.md#feature-state). |
```

| {{serverless-short}} | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
| Self-managed | ECK | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md), [Snapshot and restore](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-between-elasticsearch-clusters-with-minimal-downtime.md), [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

### Migrate data to {{serverless-full}}**: [data-migration-guides-serverless]

| From | To | Supported Methods |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | ECH | {{serverless-short}} | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md) {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.3+` <br><br> [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |

Reviewer: my bad. two `<br>`s looked a little silly

```suggestion
| ECH | {{serverless-short}} | [Reindex API](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-data-using-reindex-api.md) {applies_to}`stack: preview 9.3+` <br> [{{ls}}](/manage-data/migrate/migrate-with-logstash.md) |
```
